=head1 ABOUT THE ROBOT ARMY DATA STORE

The data store for the Robot Army is:

=over

=item * Not a relational database (like Oracle, MySQL or Postgres)

=item * Not a key/value store (like Amazon's Dynamo or Google's BigTable)

=back

It is instead a very simple B<flat record> store designed with B<sequential access> in mind. Records consist of blobs with no separate key and value, and are accessed and interpreted by the user commands.

The data is stored in a series of chunks of a minimum size, which are replicated and distributed over machines in a cluster. Commands coordinate access to them by way of a centralized locking service, accessed via a RESTish http protocol. Commands prefer local chunks to process first, if possible.

Sequential access provides for superior data throughput. It may be that there exists, or will exist in the future, some key/value store designed to have the best of both random and sequential access. Accordingly, the Robot Army is designed to be easily modified to take advantage of a separate data store.


=head1 CORPUS DETAILS

A corpus is defined with a B<corpus handle> which resides in B<clusters/clustername/> inside the Robot Army home dir. The corpus handle is simply two files named for the corpus. One contains some configuration info, and the other a list of data chunks for all the data in the corpus.

For example, if a corpus is called B<odyssey> and is seated on cluster B<homer>, the handle would be comprised of the files B<odyssey> and B<odyssey.files> in the B<clusters/homer/> dir.

The config info is:

=over 2

=item B<repos> - path to the data store dir on all participating machines

=item B<replicate> - replication factor for data files

=item B<chunksize> - target uncompressed size of data files

=item B<rs> - corpus record separator

=back

The data file names consists of three parts. 

=over 2

=item - A 128-bit MD5 content signature in hex form

=item - The number of records in the chunk

=item - The size in bytes of the uncompressed chunk.

=back

Example: ec4980119704ff4d72fb4de2e42ed3fa.19450.256003779


